README.md, before:

# Code and data for retroactive evaluation

## Setup

Step 1. Copy `.env.template` to `.env` and enter your keys (notably OPENAI_API_KEY).

Step 2. Install Python requirements:

* `pip install requirements.txt` and optionally `requirements.dev.txt`

Or using Poetry:

* [Install poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installing-with-the-official-installer)
* Install dependencies using poetry:
  ```sh
  poetry install --no-root
  ```
* Enter the virtual environment
  ```sh
  poetry shell
  ```

## Use

```
python evaluate.py <optional arguments>
```

By default, this will run an evaluation with gpt-3.5-turbo on all 100 samples in the Misconceptions category of TruthfulQA.

To specify model, supply `--model <name>` using the [LiteLLM naming](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers).

To make a shorter test run, supply `--num-samples <count>`.

To see the generated answer to every question, add `--verbose`.

Example:

```
python evaluate.py model=gpt-4-1106-preview num-samples=3 --verbose
```

More options: `python evaluate.py --help`.

## Evalaution

```
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model davinci-002
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-3.5-turbo
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-4-0314
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-4-1106-preview

python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model davinci-002
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-3.5-turbo
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-4-0314
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-4-1106-preview
```

## Running HuggingFace models

The support for HuggingFace models in LiteLLM seem to be broken at the moment. We use Oobabooga to run HuggingFace models and provide an OpenAI API over it.

### Colab with Oobabooga **RECOMMENDED**

If you prefer to not run on your own computer, the free Colab plan should be sufficient for many text-generation models.

You can start a server that you can connect to on Colab from this script.

1. Open the following notebook: https://colab.research.google.com/github/oobabooga/text-generation-webui/blob/main/Colab-TextGen-GPU.ipynb
2. Confirm that it says T4 in the upper right (or better?).
3. **Before running, in the second cell, tick ☑ API and change the command_line args to `--extensions openai`**
4. In the second cell, change the model_url to your preferred model.
5. Run both cells.
  
  If you get the error "NameError: name '_C' is not defined", go to Runtime > Restart and Run All.

6. Step 6. Wait for it to finish loading. This can take several minutes.
7. Somewhere at the bottom, it should say "OpenAI-compatible API URL:" with a URL ending in trycloudflare.com. Copy this.
8. Run `python evaluate.py --api-url <URL>`, replacing URL with the Cloudflare URL. This will ignore the model option. (Even if you write gpt-3 it will send them to your notebook)

### Running through Oobabooga locally

Step 1. Check out https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui

Step 2. Start the interface and go to the provided URL.

Step 3. Go into Model > Download model or LoRA > copy model name/path from HF. Click Download and wait until completed (can take a few minutes).

Step 4. Load the model. This may require figuring out the right loader. Transformers is a good start.

Step 5. Run the script with the argument `--api-url <URL>` with the above URL. This will ignore the model option. (Even if you write gpt-3 it will send them to your notebook)

Commit message:

Remove local model speculation and add explanation

README.md, after:

# Code and data for retroactive evaluation

## Setup

Step 1. Copy `.env.template` to `.env` and enter your keys (notably OPENAI_API_KEY).

Step 2. Install Python requirements:

* `pip install requirements.txt` and optionally `requirements.dev.txt`

Or using Poetry:

* [Install poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installing-with-the-official-installer)
* Install dependencies using poetry:
  ```sh
  poetry install --no-root
  ```
* Enter the virtual environment
  ```sh
  poetry shell
  ```

## Use

```
python evaluate.py <optional arguments>
```

By default, this will run an evaluation with gpt-3.5-turbo on all 100 samples in the Misconceptions category of TruthfulQA.

To specify model, supply `--model <name>` using the [LiteLLM naming](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers).

To make a shorter test run, supply `--num-samples <count>`.

To see the generated answer to every question, add `--verbose`.

Example:

```
python evaluate.py model=gpt-4-1106-preview num-samples=3 --verbose
```

More options: `python evaluate.py --help`.

## Evalaution

```
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model davinci-002
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-3.5-turbo
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-4-0314
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/crafted_dataset_unfiltered.jsonl' --model gpt-4-1106-preview

python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model davinci-002
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-3.5-turbo
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-4-0314
python evaluate.py --dataset-file 'data/generated_dataset_unfiltered.csv' --model gpt-4-1106-preview
```

## Running HuggingFace models

Evaluating through API likes that of OpenAI and Anthrophic can be done with just an API key.

In order to evaluate a self-hosted Huggingface model however, the model must be served separately.

We recommend using Oobabooga for this, as explained below.

### Colab with Oobabooga

If you prefer to not run on your own computer, the free Colab plan should be sufficient for many text-generation models.

You can start a server that you can connect to on Colab from this script.

1. Open the following notebook: https://colab.research.google.com/github/oobabooga/text-generation-webui/blob/main/Colab-TextGen-GPU.ipynb
2. Confirm that it says T4 in the upper right (or better?).
3. **Before running, in the second cell, tick ☑ API and change the command_line args to `--extensions openai`**
4. In the second cell, change the model_url to your preferred model.
5. Run both cells.
  
  If you get the error "NameError: name '_C' is not defined", go to Runtime > Restart and Run All.

6. Step 6. Wait for it to finish loading. This can take several minutes.
7. Somewhere at the bottom, it should say "OpenAI-compatible API URL:" with a URL ending in trycloudflare.com. Copy this.
8. Run `python evaluate.py --api-url <URL>`, replacing URL with the Cloudflare URL. This will ignore the model option. (Even if you write gpt-3 it will send them to your notebook)

### Running through Oobabooga locally

Step 1. Check out https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui

Step 2. Start the interface and go to the provided URL.

Step 3. Go into Model > Download model or LoRA > copy model name/path from HF. Click Download and wait until completed (can take a few minutes).

Step 4. Load the model. This may require figuring out the right loader. Transformers is a good start.

Step 5. Run the script with the argument `--api-url <URL>` with the above URL. This will ignore the model option. (Even if you write gpt-3 it will send them to your notebook)
